Dashboards
Foreword

Please keep in mind that as you progress through the practicals, you are building your way towards your coursework submissions. You must attend the practical sessions to receive feedback and guidance on how to improve your code. In the same spirit, please ask for help if you get stuck at any point. JavaScript and D3 have steep learning curves and you shouldn't leave things to the last minute.

You should keep working on the same project started in the previous practicals. If you have not completed previous practicals please do so before starting this one.

In this practical, we will focus on CSS, and look at how we can make effective dashboard layouts.
Objectives

By the end of this practical you should be able to:

    Implement CSS Grids to organise a visualisaton dashboard;
    Use HTML inputs and connect them with D3 to add controls.

Grids

On paper, design a dashboard for your coursework. If you are not sure where to start, use the dashboard presented in Lecture 7a.

Then, try to implement such a dashboard with CSS Grids. You can use grid.layoutit.com for help, and consult the Complete Guide to Grid too.
Inputs

Next, we will look at adding two types of inputs to our dashboard using D3: buttons and dropdown selections.
Button

Using d3.select and .append add a button element to your dashboard.

You can edit the text it displays with the .text method.

You can then edit its click behaviour with the .on method, listening to 'click' events.
Dropdown Selection

Using d3.select and .append add a label element to your dashboard. You can edit its text with the .text method.

Then, add a select element, and save it in a new d3 selection.

From this selection, we can append several option elements, e.g., using the .data and .join methods. option elements need to have two properties set: their display text (.text(...) method) and their value attribute (.attr('value', ...) method).

We can now edit the behaviour of this dropdown. With the .on method, edit the callback for change on the select element. Inside this callback, you can access the value of the option selected using .property('value') on the select element.

selectElement.on('change', ()=>{
    let optionSelected = selectElement.property('value');
    // do something
})

Wrapping Up

Before leaving this practical, check that you have understood the following points:

    How to use CSS Grid templates to place elements of a dashboard.
    How to create inputs using D3 and program their behaviours with events.

Self-Study Activity

If you have not completed this practical, please do so by the next session. You should then have a look at the activity below.

Look at how you would place your existing visualisations in the dashboard you have created.
